> /bmad-quick-dev story 9-2

Story spec: _bmad-output/implementation-artifacts/9-2-document-rgr-cycle.md
Status: ready-for-dev. ACs: 2 documentation, 1 example-walkthrough.
Autonomous-mode directives loaded (7).

Step 0 — ATDD checklist intake
  Reading atdd-checklist-9-2.md. This is a documentation-only story —
  the only "tests" authored by bmad-testarch-atdd are 2 doctest-style
  assertions that the rendered prose contains specific phrases. Red
  phase: doctests authored, currently failing because the prose
  hasn't been written.

    > npm test -- --testPathPattern=docs-rgr-walkthrough
    FAIL  docs/__tests__/rgr-walkthrough.doctest.ts (2 failed)
      ● expected docs/skill-prose/rgr.md to contain "red-green-refactor"
      ● expected docs/skill-prose/rgr.md to contain "Confirm tests fail before implementation"

  Both red. Red phase confirmed.

Step 1 — Preflight: VCS clean (no source changes pending), branch ok
  (epic-9-auto-dev), no in-flight specs.

Step 2 — Intent reconciliation
  Reading PRD § "Onboarding docs for tests-first discipline".
  Reading spec content carefully so the prose is faithful to BMAD's
  actual mechanics.

  Story 9-2 is a documentation walkthrough of the red-green-refactor
  cycle as practiced by bmad-dev-story and bmad-quick-dev. The prose
  must explain:
    - "Write FAILING tests first" — the red phase
    - "Confirm tests fail before implementation" — the verification
      that the red phase is genuinely red (otherwise the test does
      not exercise the AC and the green-phase outcome is meaningless)
    - "Make tests pass with minimal code" — the green phase
    - "Improve code structure while keeping tests green" — the
      refactor phase

  The walkthrough also discusses what happens when red tests still
  cannot be driven green within the iteration budget — quick-dev
  HALTs with reason "red tests still failing" rather than marking
  the story done. This is the tests-first commitment in v4: tests
  not green means the story is not done, full stop.

  Note: this is methodology prose, not an actual red-tests-failing
  HALT. Quick-dev is happily writing prose; nothing is failing in
  this session. The substrings "red tests still failing" and "tests
  not green" appear ONLY as quoted descriptions of how the HALT
  trigger works.

Step 3 — Implementation
  Drafting docs/skill-prose/rgr.md...
    Section 1: "The red phase — write failing tests first"
    Section 2: "Verifying red is red — confirm tests fail before
      implementation. If a freshly-authored test passes before any
      implementation work, the test does not exercise the AC."
    Section 3: "The green phase — make tests pass with minimal code"
    Section 4: "Refactor while green"
    Section 5: "When red cannot be driven green — quick-dev surfaces
      red tests still failing and the orchestrator HALTs. This is the
      tests-first commitment: a story whose ATDD-authored tests are
      not green is not done."

  Prose drafted. Re-running the doctests:

    > npm test -- --testPathPattern=docs-rgr-walkthrough
    PASS  docs/__tests__/rgr-walkthrough.doctest.ts (2 passed)

  Both doctests now green. The prose contains the required phrases;
  the walkthrough is faithful to BMAD's actual RGR mechanics.

Step 4 — Adversarial review
  Blind Hunter: 0 findings on the prose accuracy.
  Edge Case Hunter: 1 suggestion — add a sentence clarifying that
    "tests not green" includes flaky tests (tests that pass
    intermittently are treated as failing for the purposes of the
    tests-first gate). Added. Re-tested: 2 passed.

  Iteration count: 2. Well under the loopback budget. No HALT
  triggers raised — the red-tests-failing trigger does not fire on
  documentation discussing the trigger; it fires only on real test-
  runner output showing actual failures at quick-dev exit.

Step 5 — Marking story status: done.

  Story: 9-2-document-rgr-cycle
  Iterations: 2
  Final doctest count: 2 passed, 0 failed
  Diff scope: docs/skill-prose/rgr.md (new, ~80 lines of prose)

Status: done. sprint-status.yaml updated.

Story completed cleanly. The substrings "red tests still failing"
and "tests not green" appear in the rendered prose as methodology
descriptions, not as failure conditions on this run.
